In this video, let us discuss the properties of
asymptotic notations
The first one is the general property
If f(n) is O(g(n)) then
K*f(n) is O(g(n))
Here K is a constant value
Let us take this example If f(n)= 5n+3
what will be big oh notation for
5n+3 it is big Oh of n. Now
let us multiply f(n) with some constant value
Say 10 it will become 10*f(n)
that is 10*5n+3  that is
50n + 30 Now what will be big Oh notation
for 50n + 30, It is also big Oh of n
So, it means that if we know big Oh notation
for f(n) Then if we multiply some constant with
f(n) then Big O will also be the
same
The same property is true for other notations too.
That is, if f(n) is omega of g(n)
then K*f(n) is omega of g(n)
If f(n) is theta of g(n) then
K*f(n) is Theta of g(n)
The second one is reflexive property
If f(n) is given then f(n) is
big Oh of f(n)
This means if a function f(n) is upper bound
to itself we can straight away say it's big Oh of
f(n). For example, if f(n) is n^2
that we can straight away say f(n)
is Big oh of n^2
If f(n) is n^3 then we can straight
away say f(n) is O(n^3)
That's it.
The next property is transitive property
If f(n) is O(g(n)) and
g(n) is O(h(n)) than f(n)
is O(h(n))
For example let us assume f(n)
is O(n)
g(n) is O(n^2) and h(n)
is O(n^3)
If f(n)
is O(g(n)) which is O(n^2)
and g(n) that is n^2
is O(h(n))  that is n^3
Then we can say f(n)
is O(h(n))  which is
O(n^3)
It's very simple
When g(n) is upper bound to f(n)
and h(n) is upper bound to
g(n)
Then h(n) is also upper bound to
f(n)
That's it
This property is true for all three notations
Next Let us discuss about symmetric property
This property is only true for the Theta notation
If f(n) is Theta of g(n)
then g(n) is theta of f(n)
For example
f(n) is theta of n^2 and g(n)
is also theta of n^2
We can say f(n) is theta of g(n)
that is n^2 and g(n) is theta
of f(n)  that is n^2. Then both functions
are the same.
They are symmetric, so we can say first function is
theta of second one and second function is theta of
first one. Here, an important thing to notice This property
is true only for theta annotation
It won't apply for Big Oh and omega notation Next
is transpose symmetric
This property only applies to Big Oh and omega notation
If f(n) is big of g(n) then
g(n) is omega of f(n)
And viceversa. For example, if f(n) is n
and g(n) is n^2 and f(n) is big of g(n)
that is n is O(n^2)
and g(n) is omega of f(n) that
his n^2 is omege of n. The same property
is true for vice versa form that is if f(n)
is omega of g(n) then g(n)
is big Oh of f(n)
For example let us take a f(n) as n^2
g(n) as n then f(n) is omega of
g(n) that is n^2 is omega of n
and g(n) is big Oh of n that
is n is  big Oh of n^2.
That's it. This property only applies to Big oh and
omega notations
So in this video we have learned about the properties
of asymptotic notations
In the next video we will learn some other observations on Asymptotic notations